Added 2.10.0 release note (#14398)
apache/pulsar: site2/website/release-notes.md

## Apache Pulsar Release Notes

### 2.10.0
#### 2022-02-28

> ### Update notice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Important notice
```

> ### Important notice

Reviewer 2: IMHO, should it be "Highlights" to introduce key enhancements? The "Importance Notice" section is more likely talking about notes that require attention, compatibility issues, etc.

Author: The items under this section are introduced default configuration changes or deployment changes, so it should be  "Importance Notice"

Reviewer 2: Thanks for clarifying this. I suggest we add an introductory sentence like "This release introduces the following default configuration changes and deployment changes that require your attention."

Remove -XX:-ResizePLAB JVM option which degrades performance on JDK11 [#12940](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12940)

> Enable TCP keepAlive flag on the sockets [#12982](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12982)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enable TCP keepAlive flag on the sockets [#12982](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12982)
```

As shown in the preview, the layout is incorrect. Suggest adding `-` before each item

<img width="1282" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/50226895/154915937-83b70561-bcc2-4f16-8809-f805d29110ba.png">

Reduce the time it takes for namespace bundle unloading to time out [#12995](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12995)
Align configurations defaults between default file and Java object (broker.conf, proxy.conf, websocket.conf) [#13272](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13272)
[PIP 118] Do not restart brokers when ZooKeeper session expires as default [#13341](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13341)
[PIP 119] Enabled consistent hashing by default on KeyShared subscriptions dispatcher [#13352](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13352)
[PIP 120] Enabled client memory limit controller by default [#13344](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13344)
Make Docker images non-root, by default, and OpenShift compliant [#13376](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13376)
[PIP 122] Change loadBalancer default loadSheddingStrategy to ThresholdShedder [#13733](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13733)

> Fixed netcat returning early for probe [#14088](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14088)

Reviewer: Some items are in the past tense while others are in the present tense. Please keep the same tense for all items.

### PIPs
- [PIP 79] Added lazy-loading feature to PartitionedProducer [#10279](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/10279)
- [PIP 84] Pulsar client: Redeliver command add epoch [#10478](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/10478)
- [PIP 86] Pulsar Functions: Preload and release external resources [#13205](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13205)

> - [PIP 97] Update Authentication Interfaces to Include Async Authentication Methods [#12104](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12104)

Reviewer 3: This PIP is not completed for 2.10. I reverted the main changes https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14424. We can remove the line here.

```suggestion
```

- [PIP 106] Broker extensions to provide operators of enterprise-wide clusters better control and flexibility [#12536](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12536)
- [PIP 107] Introduce chunk message ID [#12403](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12403)
- [PIP 110] Support Topic metadata - PART-1  create topic with properties [#12818](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12818)
- [PIP 121] Pulsar cluster level auto failover on client side [#13316](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13316)
- [PIP-124] Create init subscription before sending message to DLQ  [#13355](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13355)
- [PIP-130] Apply redelivery backoff policy for ack timeout [#13707](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13707)
- [PIP 131] Resolve produce chunk messages failed when topic level maxMessageSize is set [#13599](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13599)
- [PIP 135] Include MetadataStore backend for Etcd [#13225](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13225)

### Broker

> - [PIP 45] Added BookKeeper metadata adapter based on MetadataStore [#12770](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12770)

Reviewer 4: I think it makes sense to group all of the "[PIP 45]" fixes into sub bullet points.

- [PIP 45]
  - ...
  - ...

- [PIP 107] Introduce chunk message ID [#12403](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12403)
- [PIP 110] Support Topic metadata - PART-1  create topic with properties [#12818](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12818)
- [PIP 121] Pulsar cluster level auto failover on client side [#13316](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13316)
- [PIP-124] Create init subscription before sending message to DLQ  [#13355](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13355)
- [PIP-130] Apply redelivery backoff policy for ack timeout [#13707](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13707)
- [PIP 131] Resolve produce chunk messages failed when topic level maxMessageSize is set [#13599](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13599)
- [PIP 135] Include MetadataStore backend for Etcd [#13225](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13225)

### Broker
- [PIP 45] Pluggable metadata interface
  - Added BookKeeper metadata adapter based on MetadataStore [#12770](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12770)
  - Add Rocksdb metadata store [#12776](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12776)

>   - Converted BookieRackAffinityMapping to use MetadataStore [#12841](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12841)

Author: @Anonymitaet Fixed.

>   - Converted BookieRackAffinityMapping to use MetadataStore [#12841](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12841)

Reviewer: Thanks!

  - Allow to configure metadata store URL in broker.conf [#13077](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13077)
  - Removed old ZK caches implementations [#13075](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13075)
  - Allow to start bookie with Pulsar metadata store backend [#13296](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13296)
  - Removed ZooKeeperClientFactory [#13303](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13303)
  - Use reference counting in RocksDB metadata store [#13309](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13309)

>   - Allow to configure metadata store URL in proxy.conf [#13777](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13777)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Allow configuring metadata store URL in proxy.conf [#13777](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13777)
```

>   - Allow to configure metadata store URL in functions_worker.yml [#13782](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13782)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Allow configuring metadata store URL in functions_worker.yml [#13782](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13782)
```

  - Add configuration metadata store url setting in WebSocket [#13786](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13786)
  - Allow configuring configurationMetadataStore when initialize cluster metadata [#13889](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13889)
  - Using the consistent metadata store scheme name [#13937](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13937)
  - Allow configuring `metadataStoreUrl` in `pulsar-perf managed-ledger` [#14145](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14145)
  - Deprecated zookeeper settings [#14147](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14147)
  - Fixed metadata cache inconsistency on doing refresh [#14283](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14283)
- Support broker level dispatch rate limiter [#11325](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/11325)
- Support setting geo-replication clusters on topic level [#12136](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12136)
- Add Multi-tiered storage key to broker.conf [#12173](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12173)
- Support configuration to rate-limit dispatching on batch message [#12294](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12294)

> - Support split the largest bundle of the namespace [#12361](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12361)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Support splitting the largest bundle of the namespace [#12361](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12361)
```

- Log thread dump when Zookeeper session expires to help detect possible deadlocks [#13124](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13124)
- Add removeMaxConsumersPerSubscription method for v1 namespace [#13192](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13192)
- Fixe error value for 1MB in metrics [#13213](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13213)
- Optimize TopicPolicies#messageTTLInSeconds with HierarchyTopicPolicies [#13241](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13241)
- Add schema compatibility strategy on topic level [#13297](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13297)
- Optimize TopicPolicies#maxConsumerPerTopic with HierarchyTopicPolicies  [#13361](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13361)
- Optimize TopicPolicies#replicationClusters with HierarchyTopicPolicies [#13495](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13495)
- Fix compatibility issue with other metadata store implementations in resources [#13394](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13394)
- Fix race condition in stopping replicator while it is starting [#13412](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13412)
- Support backlog quota across multiple clusters [#13445](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13445)

> - Return null instead of RestException when get bookieAffinityGroup [#13462](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13462)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Return null instead of RestException when getting bookieAffinityGroup [#13462](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13462)
```

- Fix print error log when server return redirect (http code 307) [#14259](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14259)
- Optimize topic policy with HierarchyTopicPolicies about publishRate [#14267](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14267)
- Fix ack-hole and backlog for persistent-replicator [#14282](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14282)
- Fix NPE in internalSkipMessages [#14297](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14297)
- Validate blank advertised listener name [#14306](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14306)
- Let entries expire in the metadata caches [#14154](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14154)
- Fix transaction system topic loop creation [#12749](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12749)
- Fix topic transaction buffer handle null snapshot [#12758](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12758)
- Optimize changeToCloseState method [#14277](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14277)

### Clients
- [Java] Support create a consumer in the paused state [#11974](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/11974)
- [Java] Support passing existing executor providers to the client [#12037](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12037)

> - [Java] Fix the producer OOM if got exception while add message to batch container [#12170](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12170)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Java] Fix the producer OOM if got an exception while adding messages to batch container [#12170](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12170)
```

- [Java] Add getNumPartitions method into PartitionedProducerImpl [#13239](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13239)
- [Java] Allow config client dns bind addr and port [#13390](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13390)
- [Java] Support add custom properties for the reconsumeLater interface [#13461](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13461)
- [Java] Allow Client Builder set Dnslookup params [#13503](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13503)
- [Java] Avoid repeatedly set startMessageIdData to null for ConsumerImpl [#13606](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13606)
- [Java] Let the 'properties' to be empty for ConsumerBuilder and ProducerBuilder [#14074](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14074)
- [Java] Log producer batchSize and msgSize percentiles [#14229](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14229)
- [C++] Add Wireshark cmake and fix build with latest Wireshark [#13236](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13236)
- [C++] Wireshark Pulsar dissector naming replace yahoo with apache [#13251](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13251)
- [C++] Support arm64 optimized CRC32c hardware-instructions [#13246](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13246)

> - [C++] Support more pulsar command name and version in Wireshark dissector [#13286](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13286)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [C++] Support more pulsar command names and versions in Wireshark dissector [#13286](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13286)
```

- [Functions] Override inactive_topic_policies in Pulsar Functions namespace creation [#13048](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13048)
- [Functions] Add possibility to pass additional JVM arguments to the function JVM (additionalJavaRuntimeArguments) [#13282](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13282)
- [Functions] Fix `getTlsTrustChainBytes` not work when functions worker not run with broker [#13875](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13875)
- [Functions] Fix distributed log metadata not correctly initialized [#13891](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13891)
- [Functions] Remove sensitive information from log [#14159](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14159)
- [IO Connector] Pass client builder if no service url provided to debezium connector [#12145](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12145)
- [IO Connector] Fix: "Sqlcmd: Error: Microsoft ODBC Driver 17 for SQL Server : Login failed for user 'sa'.." in MS SQL integration test [12374](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12374)
- [IO Connector] Fix the marshal and unmarshal the sink config [#12625](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12625)

> - [IO Connector] Support rename the file has been processed [#13373](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13373)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [IO Connector] Support renaming the file that has been processed [#13373](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13373)
```

- [IO Connector] Support Fixed and ENUM datatypes for ElasticSearch Sink [#13800](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13800)
- [IO Connector] Implement --retain-key-ordering (KEY_SHARED subscription) for Sinks [#14083](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/14083)

### Observability

- [Broker] Expose broker bundles metrics to prometheus [#12366](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12366)
- [Broker] Add publishRateLimitedTimes to topic metrics [#13538](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13538)
- [Broker] Fix bundle metrics would overwrite loadbalance metrics [#13641](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13641)
- [Broker] Fix managed cursor acknowledgment state metric names [#13844](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/13844)
- [Java Client] Add pending-queue size metrics to producer stats [#12674](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12674)

### CLI

> - [Pulsar Admin] Support get a mapping of brokers to partitioned topics [#11763](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/11763)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Pulsar Admin] Support a mapping from brokers to partitioned topics that each broker serves [#11763](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/11763)
```

> - [Pulsar Admin] Support terminate a partitioned topic [#11893](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/11893)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Pulsar Admin] Support the termination of a partitioned topic [#11893](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/11893)
```

- [Pulsar Admin] Update command descriptions from old 'property/cluster/namespace' format to current 'tenant/namespace' format [#10485](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/10485)
- [Pulsar Admin] Add remove-subscription-types-enabled command for namespace [#12392](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12392)
- [Pulsar Admin] Fix output format of string by pulsar-admin command [#11878](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/11878)
- [Pulsar Admin] Add a metric to get the earliest time in the backlog [#12523](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12523)
- [Pulsar Admin] Reduce severity of log "refreshing key manager" in KeyManagerProxy [#12594](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12594)

> - [Pulsar Admin] Support to get list of topics under a namespace bundle [#12632](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12632)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Pulsar Admin] Support getting a list of topics under a namespace bundle [#12632](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/pull/12632)
```
